Now we're going to talk about the database that we're going to use within our application from now on.
Now we didn't really use any datasource and we created our data manually and after this with you we
start digging into the world of spring data and see how great it is at handling all kinds of data operations.
Now our focus in this video is H-2 in memory database H2 is an awesome database with lots of this thing
features that lead us to choose it against others.
Now let's take a look at what those features are H-2 is a very fast database.
Thanks to its lightweight structure it's also an open source project act to develop by lots of contributors.
H-2 makes use of JD B C API and what this means is that working with or developing wrapper classes with
it for our project is very easy.
Even if you don't use Spring data there are two modes of H-2 database.
There is an embedded mode and there is also a server remote embedded mode of H-2 allows us to use it
as an in memory database and that's one of the reasons of it as being lightweight H-2 comes with a browser
based console application where you can manage short databases and do all kinds of thing that you could
do with database management software.
It even has a sequel command line where you can run all of your queries if you'd like to render manually
one of the most important aspects of H too is that the size of its archive its jar file its files around
1.5 megabyte and everything combined from a database engine to browser based console application.
All of them are fit into the super lightweight char file.
These are the highlights of the H-2 in memory database.
In the upcoming sections we're going to make use of it heavily and do all kinds of things with it in
order to start developing our first application with spring data JPA and H2.
I'll see you on the next video.